We should, from now on, be experts
analyzing business models.
We will not review the business model
canvas because you are sure to control
it to the perfection.
What we will do is look at
what factors we should
analyze or keep in mind whenever
we think about a business
model.
We should think so.
Is it a big market?
Is the size of the market
large?
The bigger the more interesting.
Is it scalable?
That is something we will see later.
Are there entrance barriers that
make the value of the business model
greater because we are making
it difficult for competitors to enter?
Do we bring value?
This is probably one of the
main questions I have.
It is always the first thing I do
because this is conditional
You have to be very clear that
you are bringing value, that you
are solving a real problem that
customers have, that customers
are willing to pay, etc.
The question is, are there
any exchange costs?
Customers have difficulty
changing suppliers.
If you get that there are exchange costs
you will have more recurring customers
and your business will be worth more.
The income?
What should we first think
about with income?
What analysis should we do?
If they are recurring.
Now everyone seems to look for
recurring income, which generates
security, because it makes you
able to project with less risk
what will happen in the
coming periods.
Has there been a disruption in costs?
Is it that the business model has
generated any innovation that
allows costs to be much lower
than the competition?
It is always interesting to analyze
how a business' cash flow is.
There are that have a very sound
positive cash flow in which they
are permanently generating
treasury, do not need
financing, etc.
Instead, there are other business
models that do it to consume
treasury, especially initially.
The need for funding
will be
greater.
Another basic question you have
to ask yourself when you talk,
when you think about a company,
is what are the margins?
Are we talking about a business
with very small margins that needs
to bill a lot of money to earn
something?
One of the key analysis factors
we've spent a lot of
time on is scalability.
This is a very important concept that
is now in everyone's mouth.
Why is it?
Because scalable have more
potential, they are companies that
higher valuations, they are the
companies that are
preferred by investors.
Remember, we talked
about the problem facing
many small business
owners.
These are companies that will not scale
because they depend entirely on the owner.
So imagine, let's think of a doctor
selling his hours or a psychologist
or a consultant whose entire
business generation, for example,
depends on the partner,
CEO or whatever.
All these companies are ownership companies
and are companies that are not scalable
and are companies that if they do not
evolve their business model, they
will never come to have value because
if the owner is not, the company
does not generate.
If we analyze scalability from
a technical point of view, the
orthodox definition is that it
is a model that is able to generate,
is able to grow in income
while costs or investments
do not grow proportionately.
What is really very valuable is
understanding what makes a business
scalable because only in
this way can we evolve
business models looking
for scalability.
And well, what we did is
identify four factors or four
requirements.
First, the market has to be very large.
If the market is not big you won't
be able to grow much.
Two, the distribution channels
or the channels through which
you grow must be scalable.
The most obvious is the internet.
You can sell from your home to
anywhere.
Another key aspect is the supply.
The standardized offer.
What do I mean by this?
If you grow and need to
adapt a lot, for example,
your product or service in each
of the markets you are in, your
scalability will be lower because
you will need permanent
investments, product
adaptations, product
developments, etc.
I go to the other extreme.
Imagine that you create a
product, we think of a software,
an application, I don't know, and
that you can grow around the
world without having to adapt
absolutely anything.
Well, then you are much more scalable.
The last criterion is resources.
The resources you need in your
business model.
What is what you need?
Imagine your business is very
people-intensive.
People are not scalable.
As you grow up, you'll
need to hire more people,
so the cost curve will
continue to grow.
But we go to the opposite,
we are almost not in need
of people and what we need is
a technology that can be
used by as much a million
people as one.
In this case, the resource
is much more scalable.
We can grow a lot, but the cost
curve or the investment curve,
which is not the same, obviously,
will follow more or less
flat.
One of the business models
we study most deeply is
platforms.
Why is it?
For many things, because platforms
are that are revolutionizing
almost every sector, because
they have many advantages and
because the implications
in management are huge.
The most important or the main
implication we have seen in
platforms with regard to
linear and what makes it different
is the network effect, is the
network effect that basically
is that on a platform
what happens is that as there
are more users or that users
use more the platform,
more value is generated
for all users.
It is a virtuous circle.
More users, more value, more
users, more value.
Or we can also see it from another
perspective and it is a vicious circle.
If you have fewer users than your competitor
or do not have users, you do not generate
value and will make it impossible
for you to grow.
What is the consequence of all this?
This is what is called the Winner
Takes It All effect.
It is that monopolies are generated,
because the companies that grow most
generate huge barriers to entry,
the platforms that grow most
and that makes them very
valuable companies.
Come compete now, for example,
with idealist or with photocasa
in Spain, which are the real estate
companies that add almost all
the supply and almost all the demand.
Try to compete with it from scratch.
Of course, as you don't have users on
either side, you'll never be able
to grow because you don't generate
value to either side, you don't
take traction, you don't take momentum.
What is very important is that
we understand that platforms are
different as a business model
from linear and that, therefore,
management is very different.
In a linear business, what you have
is to provide value to your
customers in a linear way.
On a platform, that is not the case.
You do what you do is create
the environment within which the
platform is and within which users,
who are sometimes supply and demand
in a marketplace or the users of
an application, for example,
generate value among themselves.
You have to encourage that value
is generated.
You can do this in many ways, healing
information, making everything
more accessible.
Well, in many ways.
Another of the implications
that platforms have is that the
growth strategy is different,
because you have to work
on both sides of the platform.
Imagine it is a marketplace.
You have to capture both supply
and demand.
Instead, when your business is
linear, the only thing you have to
do is capture customers on one side
of the two.
But well, the important thing is that
you understand the differences,
that you understand what
a platform is, that you understand
the difference with a linear business,
basically to avoid the mistake
of managing the platforms as if
they were linear business.
To understand competitive
strategies, we will primarily
rely on two tools.
The first is the value curve.
It is a very simple tool that
allows us to understand well
what competitors are
investing in, what the industry
is offering, what we do,
what is our differentiation,
what we are better in,
what we are worse in, etc.
The other of the tools or models
is the matrix of Michael Porter's
generic strategies, which
is something you have to understand
well.
This is the basis of the strategy.
We know that there are two dimensions
or two bridges.
One of them is what is the source
of competitive advantage.
Businesses, basically, what Porter
tells us is that they have to choose
between differentiation or
cost leadership.
They have to choose between
being better, for which
they will usually have to invest
more, or they have to choose to
be more efficient in their operations,
in their costs, which will allow
them to be cheaper or have the
same price as competitors, but
earning more money with
higher margins.
You can reinvest those
margins in marketing, etc., and
eventually you grow.
And the other dimension is that
we have to choose to address
the entire sector, or we have
to choose to specialize
in a niche, in a specific
segment.
Well, because from these two dimensions,
what we see is that there are
three or four, depending on
who says it, generic strategies.
Differentiation and cost leadership,
and then we have segmentation
or niche, which we could also
divide into specialized
in differentiation and specialized
in cost.
By the way, the advantage of segmentation
or looking for the niche is that
what you do is, you know much better
than your competitors that particular
segment, in which you become
unbeatable, establish better
relationships with customers,
etc.
This is a very convenient
strategy in many occasions,
especially in small.
There are great opportunities to
specialize a lot, because the
big competitors are not able
to serve that niche like
you.
Because it is very important to
understand Michael Porter's
generic strategies, because we
have to have very clear what
our strategy, our competitive
strategy, our generic strategy is.
Keep in mind that the
implications that the management of
the entire company has are huge.
That is, the difference between
choosing differentiation, that you
have to permanently look for value,
that you are bought for being
better, etc.
Or choose cost leadership, where
what you oppose is to be more
efficient in each of the
chain links to increase
the margins or to reduce
prices, because of course,
the management of the
company is totally
different, you need
different profiles, etc.
The risk here I would say are the
companies that don't know very
well what they are playing.
And in the end they are not even better,
the customer does not perceive
the differentiation, but they are
not more cost efficient, etc.
They are left on no-one's land and ultimately
what they do is generate competitive
disadvantages.
Well, what we have done is, thanks
to the Blue Ocean strategy, we
have learned to overcome this
concept.
We have learned, remember Porter
tells us, you have to choose between
being, between differentiation,
between being better, which
always brings in with greater
investments.
For example, a restaurant
You want to be a better restaurant
than your competitor.
What is what you do?
You put yourself in a prime area with
more expensive rentals, hire
a better chef, that is, more higher
costs, or make a greater investment
in having a local, because that,
of higher level.
Differentiation usually
brings more investment.
And on the other hand, we have, or so,
leadership in cost.
Well, because what the Blue Ocean
strategy tells us is that what we
can do is look for innovation in
value, which is simultaneously
generating more value at a
lower cost.
And as I tell you, it may sound
easy, but it's really breaking
up with absolutely everything
we've learned today with traditional
strategic thinking.
Well, the Blue Ocean strategy,
what helps us is to do so.
It gives us tools.
We saw the rice matrix.
The RICE matrix, what helps us
is what we do, we start from
the industry's value curve and
what we're going to do is
invest strongly.
We will raise the value curve
to offer more value.
For what we will have to do
is increase and create in some
of the factors, invest strongly
along with what we do is
reduce enormously, de-invest
in other factors.
In some cases, they are eliminated.
In the end, what we get is a completely
different value curve.
And if we do so and that value
curve convinces a segment
of customers, well, because we
have generated our Blue Ocean.
We always recommend companies
who think this way, that they
look for their Blue Ocean.
There are really few companies that
create a Blue Ocean starting from all
the requirements we have said,
but it helps a lot to innovate.
You have to be constantly thinking
like this, forgetting what others
are doing, being brave,
reducing in some of the factors,
creating others, seeking
differentiation in this way.
And if you get it, if you believe
your Blue Ocean, what you're going to
get out is that Red Ocean in which they're
all doing the same thing,
with low margins, copying, etc.,
and what you're going to do is grow
a lot, your margins to
be bigger, etc.
We have seen several examples
of Blue Oceans, the one that always
comes up, that is spoken in the
book, etc., is the Circo del Sol,
but we have seen closer cases
like the Plus Account, for example,
of Ãlvaro, or we at The
Power MBA.
As companies grow, it is very important
to understand a number of concepts
or models.
The first is the Ansov matrix.
It is a matrix that helps us visualize
what are the growth options we have,
and it always applies, that
is the good thing about this matrix,
which is very simple and applies
in all cases.
What Ansov tells us is that
we can grow in two dimensions, we
can grow in products, and
we can grow in markets.
And from these two
dimensions, what we have
is four growth strategies.
We have market penetration,
what we do is, we're going to grow
in the market we're in, and with
our current products, it's the
one that has the least risk.
We can choose to develop
new products within
the market we are in.
And this has a little more
risk, because, well, we don't know
if customers will see value,
if they will buy us, etc.
Or we can choose to develop markets,
that is, with the products
we have, we go to other markets,
whether they are other segments
or geographic market development.
Here, for example, we can see the
Power MBA growth strategy
in the United States, for example.
This is a disruption of market development.
And finally, we have the
growth strategy that has the
greatest risk, which is diversification.
Because we are moving as far away
as possible from our current business,
into new markets and new products.
Another basic concept you have
to understand is the difference
between organic growth
and inorganic growth.
Organic growth is when you
grow with your own resources.
And inorganic growth occurs when
what you do is a merger, an acquisition,
a joint venture, or an
alliance with a third party.
Each option has
its advantages and
disadvantages.
It will be applicable in different scenarios.
If what you want, for example, is
to grow very fast, imagine you
want to do a very fast international
expansion.
You are heavily capitalized.
How will it be easier?
Grow with your own resources,
have delegations in each of the
countries, or what you do is
acquire or do a joint venture
or whatever with local
companies.
Well, it is obvious that in
this case we will grow faster
if we opt for inorganic
growth.
But it also brings greater
risks.
We have to understand this.
It has many risks, inorganic
growth, you have to integrate
into companies with different
cultures, etc.
It is easy to understand.
How do companies grow in digital
environments?
The first thing we see is what
the main metrics are.
It is very important.
This is more than that they are few and
help us understand very well how
they work and how this type of business
grows.
We did answer four questions.
The first is, how much does each customer
generate?
There are two basic metrics here.
ARPU is the mean revenue per
user.
That is, what we generate on
average a customer in a period of time.
For example, each customer
generates us $25 a year.
The second metric is the Customer
Lifetime Value, which is the value
that will generate that customer
throughout our lifetime.
That will depend on the ARPU and will
depend on the time that that
client stays with us, of the
recurrence, for example.
The second is how much does
it cost to capture a customer?
Here we see two metrics that are
very basic and you'll have heard thousands
of times.
As is the cost of acquisition,
it can be the CPA, or if we are
talking, for example, of a sale.
How much does it cost to generate a sale?
And we also have another perspective
that is similar, which is the cost
of customer acquisition, which is the
CAD.
In this case, therefore, it applies more
if, for example, we are talking about
a customer of a subscription, etc.
We already know how much customers generate
for us, we already know how much it costs
us to capture it.
So we can already calculate how
much we earn with each of the customers.
That can be, for example, the Customer
Lifetime Value, everything that
generates us, minus the cost of
acquiring a customer.
This is a very basic account
for all companies with digital
growth engines.
And the other perspective we like
to incorporate is, how long
do we recover the investment?
That is, we invest in marketing
to capture a customer, but
how long will we get it back
through revenue?
This is called the CAC Payback.
You have to keep in mind that
if, for example, you recover in 15
days the investment you are making
to capture a customer, you only have
to finance that growth during those
15 days, and in 15 days it is already
generating a positive cash flow.
If, however, what happens is that
we invest in capturing a
customer and do not recover that
cost of acquisition until within,
for example, 12 months, we have
to finance growth for all
that time.
So if we want to be very aggressive
in growth, we will almost
always have to resort
to foreign funding or to
capitalize strongly.